Grace, mercy, and peace be unto you from our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
Again, a portion of the Old Testament reading from the book of Isaiah.
Strengthen the weak hands and make firm the feeble knees.
Say to those who have an anxious heart, be strong, fear not.
Behold, your God will come with vengeance and with recompense of God.
He will come and save you.
You'll join me in a word of prayer.
O God, Heavenly Father, as we gather,
on this day.
As we journey through this season of Advent, today we ask that you would lead us to find joy in these promises that you have given to us, the joy of the coming of your Savior, and the joy of His future return.
Now as we wait in this life and in this world, O Lord, for your promises to be fulfilled, as we wait and look forward, we ask that you would teach us to wait patiently and to wait faithfully.
Lead us to do this today and throughout the season of Advent as we look to the birth of your son Jesus Christ and the celebration that comes with it.
We pray in Jesus' name.
Amen.
The congregation may be seated.
During the season of Advent, I like to work in somewhere during the season, one of these weeks, the topic of waiting well.
It's really what the season of Advent is.
historically meant to be and meant to do for us to teach us.
Historically, Advent was a solemn, penitential season of fasting for early Christians, preparing for both Christ's first coming, his nativity, and for his second coming, the perusea.
A dual focus that emphasized hopeful watching, waiting for the Messiah's arrival and the end times.
Christians have been following this pattern of waiting through the season of Advent since about the fourth century.
AD.
So question that follows, how are we doing at the waiting?
How are we doing at the slowing down during the season or even the fasting of this season if that's what it was meant to be?
And the answer, of course, is that we live in a world that makes these practices quite difficult.
Not only is this season one of the busiest of the year,
But it seems like everything is constantly speeding up.
We have constant distractions if we're not careful.
And these constant needs that take us away from what we are called to focus on this season, responsibilities of this life, things to do, places to be, all of the stuff to get ready for this season.
And yet it's meant to be a season of waiting, of patience, of hopeful looking and watching.
As I hope this morning that we might be reminded of this, as we look to the people of the Old Testament here in Isaiah's day, they also, like us, were called to wait and to look and to watch.
They were waiting for these promises which we find here given in Isaiah chapter 34, chapter 35, that one day the eyes of the blind would be opened, the ears of the deaf unstopped, the lame man leap like a deer in the tongue of the mute sing for joy.
and waters breaking forth in the wilderness and streams in the desert.
Essentially what's promised here is that all of the needs, all of the wants, the hopes of this world would be met someday, that this promise would come, that these promises would be kept and would be met, and the people looked and waited and longed for it, and in this way we have much in common with them.
While we can look back and see the Messiah who has come, Jesus Christ our Lord, we still wait for the fulfillment of these promises.
Our world is not the world that is promised in Isaiah chapter 35.
We still deal with all these needs, all of these hopes that one day there would be perfect justice that the law would go forth and be followed
that those needs that people have in this earthly life would be met, that those who are dealing with infirmities of various kinds, that blindness would be healed, deafness would be opened, all these promises that are given here, and we too are called to watch and to wait.
And today, if possible, I would say we can even wait with joy if we really tap into this, if we really look for the fulfillment of this promise in our lives,
That's where it may lead if we can find it.
So that's what I will offer this morning.
A couple of thoughts on this topic.
I grew up in the age of dial-up modems.
I imagine a number of you can remember this as well, of course.
This was my first
insight into what the internet was like was these dial-up modems.
My dad was a fairly early adopter of technology and we had a computer at home and then I can remember when we had this little box that sat in the corner and plugged into the phone line and you would start it up and click a few buttons on the computer and then you would get all these beeps and boops and and you would be waiting for a while.
And on the screen, a few words would flash as all of this noise was happening in the background, initializing.
And then another one that I remember staring at quite a bit, please wait.
You couldn't do anything else.
And in fact, you shouldn't do anything else because if you started pressing buttons during that process, then things would actually
get worse, you might slow it down, you might turn it off, you might interrupt what was happening, all those magical noises that were somehow connecting you to some other place in the world.
And that was the promise of the early internet days.
You could plug in this device, you could turn on your computer, and somehow you could be plugged into everything it felt like.
And today, that's even more true.
But you also, in the early days of computer, couldn't help but spend a fair amount of time waiting.
And not just with the modem, but anytime an update had to be installed or even just starting up your computer sometimes would take three or four minutes for everything to get ready.
So you had to spend time in this period of waiting.
Please wait.
And in fact, don't do anything because if you do something, if you take any other actions, you may break it.
You may cause problems.
You may interrupt what's already started.
It's what this season is meant to be for Christians as well.
We tap into, we have insight into God's promises, God's Word, all of Scripture.
And the Bible even talks about this as being so valuable, the gospel, that we are given that angels long to look into it, to know the fullness of the gospel.
And then you have pictures of the time of revelation where the people are gathered, the tribes and the nations are gathered around the throne and they're singing and they're worshiping around the throne of the Lamb, and they never seem to grow tired of it.
They're longing for it, looking for it.
They're always, unendingly rejoicing in the good news of God, of our Lord Jesus Christ.
This is what we get to tap into.
And I know, I've talked to enough people here that you feel it as well.
Every now and then, sometimes in our worship services, as we sing, as we come into this place, as we come forward for communion, we get a sense of this reality.
that heaven is here on earth even now.
And yet, as we walk out the doors, maybe if we're done with the devotion in the morning and we turn to the rest of the needs of the day in our regular lives, we go out from these promises.
We're waiting on these promises to be finally completely real and full and known to us all the time, because we go into the world and we're constantly met by other distractions and problems.
things that need to be dealt with and illnesses and people in the hospital that we're praying for and just the ongoing trials of a broken world.
So this is what we are called to do during this season.
Please wait.
We tap into and we can see and we have in front of us beautiful promises that we need to come back to over and over and over again and yet we know we are waiting for a world that is yet to come.
But if we try to do too much,
If we work too hard, if we go the wrong directions or look for the wrong sort of hope, then we can sort of mess that up.
We can cause problems in our lives.
That brings me to my second point.
The first one, please wait.
Number two, impatience.
And something maybe we don't think about all that often.
Impatience can be a sin.
Because the sin is anything that we do that breaks God's law first or breaks God's commands, but anything that we do that brings harm to ourselves or harm to our neighbor, those around us.
Anything that we do that breaks God's commands, there's the horizontal between us and God, but also anything that we do that brings harm to us and our ability to walk in God's light and the joy that God has given us or anything that we do that breaks our relationship with our neighbor.
These are simple things.
Impatients, can it be a sin?
Well, what does impatience often lead to?
Anger?
Or being short with one another?
Being filled with some sort of a desire to move on, and so this comes, and we can lash out against those around us.
I heard a pastor say one time in a sermon, I don't think that this will probably happen, but I wish
that when we got to heaven and we were waiting there, you can imagine, waiting outside the gates and they're St. Peter.
And the thing that we had to watch before we could go in was the way we always treated people in passing, the way we always treated people that we didn't have a deep relationship, the way we always treated people that were in the service industry, especially when we were impatient, all the times that we had done this, that we had grown short and we had snapped at others.
that we had treated someone unfairly that they did not deserve.
He was imagining we should have to realize the way that we treat others, especially the people that we might consider as the people that are just there to serve us or to do something for us or to take care of us or to meet our needs and how quickly do we become impatient.
Impatients can be a sin, and especially if it is directed towards God, it can overwhelm our lives because certainly there have been those who have grown tired of waiting on God and said, God, where are you?
Are you really there?
Are you really working?
Are you still active?
Are you really still meeting the needs of this world?
Are you still answering prayers?
And there's where impatience can grow and confess to and can become
just grow out over all of us and all of our thoughts and all that we do and all of our responses to God and can even lead us away from God Himself.
So in patience, yes, I think can be a sin.
We are invited during the season to step back from all of that and to be reminded to wait, to wait patiently, to see God's faithfulness to us, to remember the God who has been forever patient with us as His people.
despite the fact that we are impatient, despite the fact that we do turn away from him, that we grow tired of his promises, that we don't always come back to him as we should, that we run from God and to our own sins, our own desires, our own will, and yet in the face of all of this, what has God always done?
He has been patient and faithful to us as his people.
So impatience can be a sin and that can be a reminder for us the season of how we
allow this to fill our lives, the ways that we're constantly going and becoming overwhelmed by what could be the stress of this life and how that can cause us to lash out against one another and even our God.
Finally, number three, pulling on the leash.
When I was in high school, my grandmother had a palmaranian dog.
And I didn't like this dog very much.
It was one of these small dogs, a little furball, that yipped and yapped.
And it was always anxious.
And so my grandmother, I would go out with her sometimes, so I would visit her.
She lived down the hill from the school, the high school I attended, so I would walk down to her house sometimes after school.
And I would go out with her on walks with this little dog.
And the Pomeranian was always named Misty, perfect name for a little Pomeranian.
It was always pulling at the leash.
I can remember watching this and it drove me nuts because it would pull on the leash and then my grandmother would pull back on it and she was getting to the point where having a dog pulling on her was not always a good thing but it was constantly pulling on the leash, constantly going, constantly this little ball of anxiety and stress and pulling and pulling to the point that it was choking itself on the leash.
No matter what we would do or try and I would take it and I would try to pull it back and get it to walk next to me and nothing would work.
Always pulling at the leash.
to the point that the dog didn't even seem to enjoy the walks because it was so stressed and anxious about just going.
And of course, the reality is it didn't matter.
And pull and pull and pull all you want, and the walk's gonna be the same length.
You're gonna go the same places, you're gonna get to see the same things.
And it just always drove me crazy that it was constantly pulling on the leash.
Of course, thinking about impatience, thinking about ourselves, thinking about the season maybe,
thinking about the ways that we allow stress and anxiety to come into our own lives.
And we two do the same thing, I think, pulling on the leash.
And I will admit that I struggle with this as well.
And it doesn't help that we have, we don't have to be patient anymore sometimes.
We don't really have to wait anymore because anytime we're even standing in line at the grocery store, we can pull a phone out of our pocket and there we've got entertainment.
But how often are we waiting for the next thing and the next thing and the next thing?
How often are we just struggling with stress and anxiety that's self-imposed, a leash that's invisible, but we have created it?
And all of this is opposed to what God invites us to, especially during the season, but our whole lives as God's people.
Our whole journey as being Christians, as being followers of Jesus Christ is meant to be one not of constantly pulling on the leash.
but of walking with him, of being steadfast, of faithfully living into those things that he has called us to do in this life.
And I'll close with this thought.
We need to look and watch Jesus.
Of course, we always do.
But we need to look and watch Jesus.
Watch Jesus through the gospels.
You will never find one time that he is in a hurry.
You'll never find one time that Jesus is in a hurry.
Not even when his friend Lazarus is being placed in the tomb.
In Luke chapter nine, verse 51, Jesus says, it says, he set his eyes towards Jerusalem.
But then you get 10 more chapters before he gets there.
And it's roughly six, seven months of time that has passed.
He set his eyes towards Jerusalem.
We know the important work that he's going to do there.
The Savior of the world, going to be placed on the cross, going to go into the tomb, going to rise again on the third day for the salvation of the world.
And yet he's not in a hurry.
He's patient.
He's kind to those who come.
All of the multitude of the crowds who come and tug on his cloak and ask for his help.
and have the needs of this world.
And he's not in a hurry.
He's patient.
He's loving and kind.
He lifts them up out of the darkness of their life.
He offers healing to those who are sick.
He brings food to those who are hungry.
And he speaks of his father's kingdom.
Not only does he do those things, but he spends much time in prayer.
These are the things that we miss.
when we are impatient with God.
These are the things that we miss when we grow too weary or stressed or anxious about the next thing and the next thing and the next thing and we don't spend time where we are.
The invitation of this season is to live into the good works that God has appointed us to do now, today.
And sometimes that looks like sitting in the morning for 15 minutes in a devotion or in God's word.
Sometimes that looks like sitting with
a child for a half an hour or an hour and singing or reading a story.
Sometimes that looks like going and meeting the need of someone in the world around us because this is what Jesus did.
And we are invited to do that as well.
So as we go through this season for the remainder of it, for what we have left of this advent, let us look to Jesus and walk with him.
The one who was never in a hurry, though he came to bring the salvation of the entire world.
So let us faithfully wait.
and walk and see what God invites us to do as His people this season.
In Jesus' name, amen.
I invite the congregation to stand at this time.
We continue with the offer to him, create in me.